---
title: Welcome to My New Blog
description: Why do we still need to write blogs in the AI era?
pubDate: 2026-01-11 19:00:00
tags:
  - personal
lang: "en"
---

Welcome to my new blog.

In this AI era where typing a single prompt can generate a fluent and flowery article, is it still necessary to create a personal blog? Does manual typing still have value when handcraft workers are facing comprehensive efficiency crushing from assembly lines? Of course, I believe there is, otherwise I wouldn't be moving against the tide and acting as a Don Quixote in the AI era. I think there are several reasons.

First, text generated by AI has no soul. It can efficiently produce a large amount of text, and under the guidance of good prompts, it can also be substantial. But as many people worry, the future internet will be full of AI-generated data. Garbage in, garbage out; human civilization will not advance because of this. The construction of culture still requires human insight, imagination, and wisdom, unless we have completely surrendered to AI. At this moment today, I think most people still do not agree with surrender.

Second, AI-generated text cannot replace personal thinking. Writing is a very good way of thinking. Therefore, relying solely on AI to generate text is similar to copy-pasting; the brain does not think during this process, and it cannot increase personal knowledge and wisdom. Human physiological structure determines that we must immerse ourselves in it to gain something. AI can never replace thinking; there are no shortcuts here, and the brain's data bandwidth is very limited. Public writing has another benefit: unlike personal notes, blogs often require more systematic thinking.

Third, writing is also a form of sharing. A large part of human meaning comes from interaction with the outside world. Sharing mere theoretical knowledge has indeed greatly reduced in value in this era, but as a summary of human practical experience and thinking, it is still a scarce commodity. No one will walk exactly the same path, but there will always be some fellow travelers on every section of the road. If our sharing can inspire a few people, then it is worth it.

In this blog, I will focus on discussing technology, specifically practice-oriented technology. Feynman once said, "What I cannot create, I do not understand." This sentence is particularly applicable in the IT field because we have abundant conditions for practice. But at the same time, I will also discuss my confusion and thinking on broader issues. In those fields, we can only do thought experiments or look for evidence in history.
